Yoopy Christian
Jakarta, Indonesia

     yoopychs@gmail.com                                         +62 812 9484 6600

     linkedin.com/in/yoopychristian

Summary
Yoopy Christian is a Tech Lead at Blue Bird Group, a leading company in transportation and logistics services. He
graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering in Geological/Geophysical Engineering from Institut Teknologi Sumatera
in 2019, and decided to pursue his passion for technology as a Software Engineer.

In his role, he manages two squads of developers, coordinates and leads the software development projects, and
makes crucial technical decisions that affect the architecture, technology, and tools used. He also writes high-
quality code and conducts peer code reviews to ensure the reliability and security of the software solutions. He
has worked on client projects for Bank BRI and OVO, creating and integrating APIs using Golang, PostgreSQL,
and MySQL. He has a unique combination of a Geophysics background and software engineering skills, which
enables him to approach problem-solving from a fresh perspective. He is dedicated to continuous learning and
professional growth, and stays updated with the latest technological advancements and industry trends. He values
collaboration, excellence, and innovation, and aims to make a significant impact in the world of technology.

Experience
    Technical Lead
    Blue Bird Group
    Jan 2023 - Present (1 year 8 months)
    • Managing 3 squads currently, Bluebird Logistics Corporate, E-timesheet Corporate Solution & Total Fleet Management Corporate.
    Coordinating and leading the team of developers, including task delegation, tracking progress, and
    providing technical guidance support. Maintaining good communication among team members and
    ensuring effective collaboration between technical and non-technical teams.

    • Making crucial technical decisions that affect the architecture, technology, and tools used in project
    development. Ensuring that proposed solutions align with industry standards and best practices.

    • Writing high-quality code and conducting peer code reviews to ensure the quality, reliability, and
    security of code developed by the team. Identifying and addressing technical issues that arise during
    development.

    • Participating in project planning and estimating development timelines. Assisting in setting task
    priorities and devising realistic work plans.

    • Ensuring that the developed products meet high-quality standards. Collaborating with the QA team to
    plan and execute efficient unit, integration, and system testing.

    • Communicating with project stakeholders, such as management, customers, and end-users, to ensure
    their requirements and expectations are understood and met. Providing regular progress reports and
    managing risks and issues that may arise.




                                              Yoopy Christian - page 1
Back End Engineer
Sagara Technology
Jul 2021 - Dec 2022 (1 year 6 months)
1. Client Bank BRI
• Working on a client project for the MVP application call Beliin-BRI.
• Make API with golang GIN framework with middleware, cors and PostgreSQL for database
• Create Application Beliin – BRI to help UMKM in their business process.

2. Client OVO
• Working on a client project for integrated Bank Indonesia with the new regulation BISNAP for the new
API in OVO.
• Make Open API with Golang monolith with middleware, cors and MySql for database and with HLD
and LLD for the design


Back End Developer
Lumoshive
May 2021 - Oct 2021 (6 months)
• Make Backend using golang
• Make API with golang GIN framework with middleware, cors and PostgreSQL for database
• Create Application Game Platform Internal Project


Back End Developer
PT FUSI SOLUSI TRANSFORMASI
Sep 2020 - Apr 2021 (8 months)
• Make Backend using golang
• Make API with golang echo framework with middleware, cors and PostgreSQL for database
• Create elasticsearch, logstash, kibana ELK to display log visualizations on kibana
• Create payment gateway SmartStudent apps Lintasarta


Trainee
Enigma Camp
May 2020 - Aug 2020 (4 months)
Learn about Golang, MySQL, JavaScript, ReactJS.


Geoscientist
Indogeo Social Enterprise
Jan 2020 - Apr 2020 (4 months)
1. Looking for a national journal to get the value of CO2, H2S, HG, in order to know the risks of oil and
gas development.
2. Make a map of Indonesia's forests as a source for exploration planning and to avoid overlapping


Geostatistics Lab Assistant
Institut Teknologi Sumatera
Jan 2019 - May 2019 (5 months)

                                          Yoopy Christian - page 2
   Become a geophysics laboratory assistant in the geostatistics section, teaching statistics to apply to
   geophysics. Starting from studying variogram models, simple kriging, ordinary kriging, spatial estimation
   methods, and spatial estimation co-kriging.


   Student Intern
   PT ANTAM Tbk
   Nov 2018 - Jan 2019 (3 months)
   Internship Student

   1. Study geology around the measurement area.
   2. Knowing the geological structure in the area.
   3. Processing geophysical data in the form of magnetic data.
   4. Create a magnetic map that is correlated with the surrounding geology.
   5. Create a structure using Geosoft Oasis Montaj software and create 3D using inversions


   Seismology Lab Assistant
   Institut Teknologi Sumatera
   Aug 2018 - Dec 2018 (5 months)
   Become a geophysics laboratory assistant for earthquake or seismology parts, and study things such
   as when P waves and S waves arrive. Determination of the speed and distance traveled by waves.
   Use the excel application, seisgram, seisee. And get earthquake data from BMKG and data from the
   International Earthquake Agency.


   Sedimentology & Stratigraphy Lab Assistant
   Institut Teknologi Sumatera
   Aug 2017 - Dec 2017 (5 months)
   Become a geology laboratory assistant. Able to sedimentology and stratigraphy. studying sedimentary
   rocks ranging from the formation of sedimentary rocks and also the qualifications of sedimentary rocks.
   Stratigraphy learns things about history, composition and relative age and distribution of bedding layers
   and interpretation of rock layers to explain the history of the Earth.


Education
   Institut Teknologi Sumatera
   Bachelor of Engineering - BE, Geological/Geophysical Engineering
   2015 - 2019


Licenses & Certifications
   EF SET Certificate - EF English First


   Statistical Processing Computer Operator - Badan Nasional Sertifikasi Profesi
   Issued Oct 2019 - Expires Oct 2022
   No. Reg. ICT 294 00017318 2019



                                            Yoopy Christian - page 3
   Mine Plan Design - CV Bara Indo Consulting
   No. 205/SER/MP/BIC-GMS/I/2020


   Memulai Pemrograman Dengan Python - Dicoding Academy
   N72ZDGQRLZYW


   Python Basic - HackerRank
   b5306c29dbf8


   Automate the Boring Stuff with Python Programming - Udemy
   UC-2ad7813d-c143-4b3f-a451-cbefeeb77f7d


   The Complete Python 3 Course for Beginners (Step by Step) - Udemy
   UC-b06271bc-ec1d-4d33-a8eb-a8ac5372d978


   Learning Python - Farhanas' Brainstation
   AWbY8JUHV-d4cYULg-qnce7GVld4


   Python Data Analysis - Farhanas' Brainstation
   AezKE6i-js9voW3_5Dc96sQaCsZg


   How to Use LinkedIn Learning (2016) - LinkedIn


   Enterprise Architecture Foundations - LinkedIn


   Creating a Culture of Collaboration - LinkedIn


   Prioritizing Your Tasks - LinkedIn

Skills
Technical Lead • Solution Architecture • Team Management • Amazon Web Services (AWS) • KrakenD
 • Kong API Gateway • PostgreSQL • Unit Testing • RabbitMQ • New Relic




                                      Yoopy Christian - page 4
